# A star algorithm implementation

In order to visualize and implement the a star pathfinding algorithm, I used a PYVIS graphics library where I could create graphs and networks of nodes and edges. 
My algorithm works with a graph network with a certain number of nodes and edges, which weights are randomly generated by default. 
I also added streamlit functionality to have a more interactive component to the project where the user can choose which nodes to interact with. 
The pyvis library sets up a great graphic interface to visualize nodes and edges for pathfinding in graphs. 

# A star algorithm 
A star is a heuristic algorithm that takes two parameters into consideration when pathfinding. 
Imported heaps in order to give priority to the nodes with the favorable f scores, that is optimal paths, through heapq. 
The h score is the heuristic, basically how well the algorithm feels about a certain path, commonly implementing the euclidian distance, while g_score is the cost of the node to travel to that node: 
```python
import math 

g_score = val 
h_distance = math.sqrt(abs(x_1 - x_2)**2 + abs(y_1 - y_2)**2)
f_score = g_score + h_distance
```
The algorithm makes the decisions based on which has the optimal f score, effectively balancing what is shortest and what intuitively feels good. This allows the algorithm to be more efficient than dijkstra's algorithm, which checks nodes that are "clearly" not a good stop to make. 

# How to run
After cloning the repo, run the streamlit app directly on the terminal on file pathfinding.py (doesn't matter if you enter your email or not)
after which you will be redirected to play with the sim 
Other jupyter notebooks were for my practicing and experimenting stuff. 
